.TH "spmfilter-clamav" "1" "31. March 2010" "" ""

.SH "NAME"
spmfilter-clamav - spmfilter ClamAV-plugin
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.P
\fB[clamav]\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P

clamav is a plugin for spmfilter that enables spmfilter to check mails with the Clam AntiVirus 
open source toolkit for viruses. The major goal of this plugin is to provide an easy way for 
virus-scanning emails. If ClamAV detects malicious software like viruses the affected email is 
discarded by the plugin. Optionally notifications can be enabled to inform the recipients and 
sender (configurable) about the discarded message. Activation of the module is done by adding 
clamav to the modules-variable with the [global]-section in spmfilter.conf like follows:

[global]
.br
 ...
.br
modules = clamav
.br
 ...

Please note that ClamAV needs to listen on a TCP/IP-socket instead of a local socket to interact 
with the spmfilter clamav-plugin. This is achieved by replacing the option "LocalSocket" with 
"TCPSocket" and "TCPAddr" in clamd.conf

.SH "OPTIONS"
.P

Configuration of the spmfilter clamav-plugin is done by adding a new section for clamav to 
spmfilter.conf

[clamav]
.br 
host = 127.0.0.1
.br 
port = 3310
.br 
max_scan_size = 2097152
.br 
notification = 0
.br 
notification_template = /path/to/clamav-template.txt
.br 
notification_sender = postmaster@example.com
.br 
notification_subject = Virus detected
.br 
add_header = true
.br 
header_name = X-Spmfilter-Virus-Scanned
.br 
scan_direction = 0

.IP \fBhost\fR
IP-address of the ClamAV-daemon. This option is mandatory.

.IP \fBport\fR
Port on which the ClamAV-daemon listens. This parameter is optional, port 3310 is used as default
if the port is not defined.

.IP \fBmax_scan_size\fR
Files larger than this limit won't be scanned, defined in bytes. This parameter is optional, 5MB
is used as default if max_scan_size is not defined.

.IP \fBnotification\fR
Enables or disables notifications of recipient if virus detected. Possible values: 0 (notification 
disabled), 1 (notify recipient), 2 (notify sender and recipient). If the smtp-engine of spmfilter 
is used, envelope-addresses are used for notification. Otherwise if the message was delivered to 
spmfilter by the pipe-engine all address are extracted from the header. Default: 0 (notification 
disabled).

.IP \fBnotification_template\fR
Absolute path to the notification template. If you want to inform your users within templates about 
which malicious software has been found by ClamAV, you can use the '%virus%' expansion which will be 
replaced by the full name of the virus detected. Also there is a '%sender%' expansion which you can 
use within your templates to inform the recipient about the origin sender.

.IP \fBnotification_sender\fR
Define sender address for notifications. This parameter is optional.

.IP \fBnotification_subject\fR
Subject String for notification messages. This parameter is optional, the string "Virus notification"
is used as default if unspecified.

.IP \fBadd_header\fR
Add header for scanned message. Possible values: true (add header), false (don't add header). Default
is "false".

.IP \fBheader_name\fR
Define X-header-name for scanned messages. This parameter is optional, "X-Spmfilter-Virus-Scanned" is
used as default if unspecified.

.IP \fBscan_direction\fR
Define direction to scan. Possible values: 0 (scan incoming and outgoing mail), 1 (scan incoming mails only), 
2 (scan outgoing mails only). This parameter is optional, 0 is used as default if unspecified (scan incoming
and outgoing mails).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.P
spmfilter.conf(5), spmfilter(3)

.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.P
spmfilter-clamav was written by Axel Steiner <ast@treibsand.com>
